Altium Education Notes

1. Have a list of back up parts to send to the manufacturer ahead of time instead of waiting for them to tell you something is out of stock
2. When designing the board shape, you can navigate to the properties tab and set a x/y grid increment instead of having to change a global grid size
3. Check stack up early with fabricator
4. Order components early in a design, especially mcus and other critical ICs
5. Hover over an trace and hold the shift key, this allows for you to see everything this trace connects to
6. Shift s selects a single layer
7. shift * lets you scroll through multiple layers
8. Trace width is determined if a signal is highspeed or lowspeed. If it is highspeed then the trace width will depend on the characteristic impedance. Low speed it should be wide enough to carry enough current and satisfy the fabricators manufacturability requirements (7-12mils).
9. If a trace carries more than about 1A of current, consider using a polygon pour.
10. Typical trace width values to consider using: 5 mil minimum, 10 mil preferred, 20 mil maximum
11. SMT entry refers to the size of the trace entering the pad of the componet. Ideally, you should make sure the trace is not larger then the pad size it is entering.
12. If the width of the trace is as wide as the width of the pad of the component, the trace should enter directly into the pad (no angles, straight in)
13. If the trace width needs to stay a certain width for impedance or current carrying capacity, then consider getting as close to the pad as possible then making a small portion of the trace small enough to route into the pad 
and obey clearance requirements. 
14. You can enable automatic polygon repour using the general settings menu
15. Minimum via drilled hole size for manufacturability is 8 mils. 10-12 mils is most common. Smaller drill
sizes are more expensive to fabricate.
16. When designing the pad or anular ring size, keep in mind the maximum trace width used to define it's size
17. When routing a trace into a via, you should make sure it is routed straight in and not at a angle
18. IPC-6012 standard for via fabrication:
	Class 1: No requirement for via annular ring size, intended for throwaway projects
	Class 2: Via annular ring must be atleast 4 mils thick. In other words, it must be the drill diameter
	+ 8 mils. Intended for longterm use and must be reliable.
	Class 3: Deployed where human lives will be at risk (military, aerospace). Annular ring must be 5 mils 		thick minimum. Via pad diameter must be drill diameter 	+ 8 mils.
19. When routing, press * to place a via
20. Press tab to pause the tool to adjust settings or parameters
21. Teardrops on vias help reliability during manufacturing by adding a thicker connection to the via and trace. If
you used the same size trace and annular ring, you don't neccesarily need tear drops.
22. You can use tear drops by going to the tools menu and selecting teardrops
23. You can display the clearance boundaries during routing by selecting ctrl w
24. Coplanar means that you have ground pour nearby traces
25. An important design rule for signal integrity is to connect all ground regions used to support routing together with vias or direct connections with copper
26. Important design rules for routing single ended and differential pairs:
	-The required width of each trace
	-The spacing between traces (differential pairs)
	-The maximum allowed difference in length of each trace (clock skew/length matching)
	-Maximum deviation from the ground plane
27. To set impedance rules to specific nets, go to pcb rules, routing and width and use the net menu to select a profile
28. You can use net classes to enforce a specific width to a group of nets
29. In highspeed designs, it is reccomended to place a ground via nearby whenever you use a via to change layers
30. For i2c, the total current in the bus should be less than 3 mA
31. When sizing pullup resistors for i2c, make sure they are sized to limit the current to under 3 mA. Typically it's safe to size so that current is right under 3mA so the rise and fall time do not interfere with other signals
32. Formula for calculating i2c pull up resistors:
	
	((vcc-0.4v)/0.003A) < Rp < (trise/(0.8473*Cb))
	
	-vcc: supply voltage
	-Rp: pullup resistor
	-trise: rise time of signal
	-cb: capacitance of the bus

	This is for a 30% to 70% transition time. For 10% to 90%, replace 0.8473 with 2.2.

33. Rule of thumb for i2c routing is to try and use around 10 mil traces with no longer than 10 cm routes
34. For spi in cases where lines are very long and termination is needed, palce a 22 ohm resistor and the beginning of traces and a resistor equal to the trace impedance (50 ohm) in parallel to ground at the end of traces.
35. Uart is generally robust and can be routed over long distances.
36. Examples of high and low speed interfaces:
	Low Speed: SPI, UART, I2C, I2S, CAN bus, Ethernet(10Base, 100Base)
	High Speed: USB, LVDS, HDMI, MIPI, Gigabit Ethernet, DDR, PCIe, SATA
37. Impedance matching or termination is the practice of setting the entire length of the trace to have the same impedance to avoid line losses such as reflections.
38. Since signals on the pcb are electromagnetic waves and travel at the speed of light, it is necessary to determine the length of which the signal travels during it's rise time. If the trace length is shorter than the distance the signal travels during it's rise time than termination is not needed. This is because, from the perspective of the load component in the above example, the signal looks like and behaves like a slowly-rising DC voltage. From the signal’s perspective, the component begins reacting to the signal at the very instant electromagnetic power is distributed across the interconnect. This means that the signal behavior is dominated by the load’s impedance and not the trace’s impedance.
39. If the trace is longer then the distance the signal travels during the duration that the signal travels then the trace will need to be designed to a specific impedance. The signal transition is so fast that the signal only interacts with the trace during its rising and falling transitions. It has no interaction with the load during these times, and the entire signal must travel down to the end of the trace before there can be any interaction with the load. Because of this, the signal is only interacting with the trace, and so we need to make sure the trace impedance has the right value
40. For basic cmos logic circuits, the source input impeance is high around 1 Mohm and the output or load impedance is low around 0.1 ohms. The general scheme for impedance mismatches is to add matching resistors at the source and load ends in series and parallel respectively.
41. Components meant for high speed signaling often have on chip termination which means termination resistors aren't necessary at times. 
42. For spi or i2c, termination needs to be applied manually only when the trace length is very long. 
43. Ansys simulation tools are popular applications for simulating emi and other signal integrity problems in a design
